Since I was very young,
I was religiously inclined
and my dream was to get married
to a man that worshipped God
and that together we would worship God
and live a peaceful life.
That didn’t happen with my parents.
We often had a better relationship
with the maid than with my mother.
My father was a very distant person.
He was always very busy
with his work and friends.
We wed in 1971 in Paris, France.
We were baptized in 1974.
I realized I really didn’t know
how to raise children,
and then I started applying some things
mentioned in the Bible.
If I wanted to teach them right,
I first had to understand
things better myself
so that I could explain them
in a way that God would want us to.
In 1976, we moved to Portugal
to serve where there was more need.
By then, our oldest son
was four and a half years old,
Maria was three and a half,
and Benjamin, one and a half.
I remember when we arrived;
we lived in a rural area.
It was a very small congregation,
so we really had to participate
from a very early age.
They wanted to put,
for sure, the spiritual interests
first in their life,
and they wanted not only to tell us
to put the Kingdom interests first
but they wanted to show us
how to do it.
And it was not only that we
sat down for family study
that we talked about Jehovah
and spiritual things.
I remember walking back home
from meetings
and then my parents would help us
to look for a star constellation;
it started a conversation about Jehovah.
In Deuteronomy chapter 6,
it says that we
must always talk to our children.
But it’s good to talk about God
and help them to see God as a real person
—a person that is linked
to everything around us.
So now I wanted to teach them very much,
and not that things about God
were sad or boring,
but were joyful.
Of course, we were imperfect.
Many times I did the wrong things.
I never remember, “You have to do it
because you have to do it.”
They always tried to explain the reasons
—Bible reasons.
I was brought up this way.
My parents dictated laws:
“You have to do this.
You must.
This is the way I want it to be.”
But I came to understand that God,
even in the Bible,
instead of only giving or dictating laws,
he explains them.
He gives so many reasons;
he gives reasons for everything.
By teaching my children,
I have to say that I have learned a lot too.
We never felt that we must go to meetings;
we must go in service
because you have to do it.
And we were always
motivated to do things.
I remember, for example,
when he gave me a new Bible,
and he wrote to me in that Bible,
“May this book always be
the motivating force in your life.”
Several times he told me:
“Please never,
“never give up in your service.
“Jehovah is your Father,
and you have to serve him
all your life.”
The Almighty has children
that failed to respond,
much like any other parent.
God does not force anyone.
He respects our free will very much.
So we wanted them
to build their own future.
I always felt
that my children were not my own,
but it was Jehovah
who kindly put them into our hands.
He entrusted them to us
so that we could care for them.
And then when we have done our part,
let them fly.
My parents always encouraged us
to pursue full-time service,
even if that meant
moving far away from home.
My husband and I are serving
as field missionaries in Klaipeda, Lithuania.
I know I will be grateful for all eternity
that I used my youth to serve Jehovah,
and that I didn’t waste
my years of my young age
doing things for this world.
My wife and I serve
in the Portugal branch office.
If Jehovah is happy,
if my parents are happy, I’m happy too.
I’m really sure
that they like what we’re doing.
They are happy with that.
We rejoice that our children
are giving their best
to their Creator and making him happy.
Jehovah deserves that.
Of course, we miss our children,
and we would like to have them around,
but we are very happy for them
for having the privilege
of serving Jehovah the way they are.